---
layout: post
title:  "SLAE32 - AES encrypted shellcode"
date:   2019-12-17 21:03:36 +0530
categories: x86 ASM AES SHELLCODE
---

In this blog post we going to create a custom crypter using AES Encryption schema. We going to create a python class to encrypt & decrypt a shellcode with the help of Crypto module. Also we going to use the ctypes in order to execute our shellcode from python script.


### What is AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) ?

The AES cipher according to wikipedia is an encryption standards which subset the Rjindael block cipher. AES is based on a design principle know as a substitution-permutation network, and is efficient in sofware and hardware. AES has fixed block size of 128 bits, and a key size of 128, 192, 256 bits. AES is a symmetric block cipher.

This schema can be implemented in any programing language but for this assignment we going to use python. 

### Python AES implementation

Python has a module called Crypto.Cipher which contains algorithms for encrypt data. In order to use this library we import the neccesary modules.

```python
from Crypto.Cipher import AES
from Crypto import Random 

```

Next we create a custom class which wrap the encryption and decryption functions.


```python

class AESCipher(object):
    
    def __init__(self, key):
        self.bs = AES.block_size
        self.key = hashlib.sha256(key.encode()).digest()

    def encrypt(self, s):
        c = AES.new(self.key)
        return base64.b64encode(c.encrypt(self.pad(s)))


    def decrypt(self,e):
        c = AES.new(self.key)
        return c.decrypt(base64.b64decode(e)).rstrip("}")

    def pad(self,s):
        return s + (self.bs - len(s) % self.bs) * chr(self.bs - len(s) % self.bs)

```

The AESCipher class define a constructor which set the block size and the key in the object initialization. Next in the class we define the encrypt method which create a new AES cipher using the `AES.new(self.key)` instruction. This instruction receive the secret key as an argument, this key is used by the symmetric cipher.

We encrypt data using the encrypt function of the AES object and encode using base64 encoding. The decryption function take the encrypted data and call the decrypt AES function to return the data decoded from base64.


### Encryption

To test the encryption we create a AESCipher object, we pass the key as an argument to the constructor. Later 
we call the encrypt method and pass the shellcode as an argument.
    
```python
aes = AESCipher('somekeyhere') # Define the key here

encoded = aes.encrypt(shellcode)
print 'Encrypted string:', encoded
```

The final output is the shellcode encoded in base64 and encrypted using the AES encryption schema.

```plaintext
motu@motu-pc:~/ASM/Assignment-7$ python shellcode.py 
Encrypted string: f/CrwHeBg0it+7sccB72QA4QS1k53mLXw+fufdZVZuU=
```

### Decryption

We next decrypt the data using the decrypt function. Using the same instance of AESCipher we call the decrypt function passing the encoded data as an argument.

```python
# decode the encoded string
decoded = aes.decrypt(encoded)
print 'Decrypted string:', decoded

```

The output of the decrypt function is:

```plaintext
Decrypted string: 1Ph//shh/binPS    
```

### Using ctypes 

There is a way to call the shellcode from python using ctypes. First we import the neccesary libraries into the script.

```python
from ctypes import CDLL, c_char_p, c_void_p, memmove, cast, CFUNCTYPE
from sys import argv
```

These modules provides C compatibility data types and allows calling functions in DLL or shared libraries. We use it to wrap these libraries into our python code.

We next load standard library or libc which provide macros, types definitions and functions for task such as string handling, io processing, memory management and OS services.

```python
# LIBC 
libc = CDLL('libc.so.6')
```

We next save the execve shellcode in a variable.


```plaintext
# execve shellcode
shellcode = "\x31\xc0\x50\x68\x2f\x2f\x73\x68\x68\x2f\x62\x69\x6e\x89\xe3\x50\x89\xe2\x53\x89\xe1\xb0\x0b\xcd\x80"

```

Using the ctypes we create a variable `sc` which hold the shellcode in the form of a char data type. The size of the shellcode is saves in the `size` variable. 

Next using the `libc.valloc` function we allocate the shellcode in memory, this function returns a pointer to the allocated address. 

Next with the `memmove` function we copy the shellcode to the address allocated. The `mprotect` function modifies the access protection of a memory region. In this case the memory region where our shellcode is save. Finally using the function `cast()` we cast the instance into a void pointer.

```python

sc = c_char_p(decoded)  
size = len(decoded)

addr = c_void_p(libc.valloc(size))

memmove(addr, sc, size)
libc.mprotect(addr, size, 0x7)

run = cast(addr, CFUNCTYPE(c_void_p))
run()

```

### Testing the script

```plaintext
motu@motu-pc:~/ASM/Assignment-7$ python shellcode.py 
Encrypted string: f/CrwHeBg0it+7sccB72QA4QS1k53mLXw+fufdZVZuU=
Decrypted string: 1Ph//shh/binPS
                                
[*] Shellcode length: 25
[*] Executing the shellcode ..
$ whoami   
motu
$ id
uid=1000(motu) gid=1001(motu) groups=1001(motu),4(adm),24(cdrom),27(sudo),30(dip),46(plugdev),117(lpadmin)
$ 
```


### PRELUDE

In this blog post we encrypt and decrypt a shellcode using AES Encryption. With the help of Crypto lib and using ctypes from python we create a working demo.


***


